This exercise is a lot of fun for the students. It was developed in the Law & Entrepreneurship Clinic at University of Wisconsin. At the time we were not particularly time constrained, so I didn't really give much thought to timing. As I led this case study in other settings, I had to fit it into a more structured class timing. Our law school classes tend to be in 55 minute timings. So, giving the assignment at the beginning of class (about 5-ish minutes), 40 minutes to discuss the problem amongst themselves (total: 45 minutes), and other 10-ish minutes to report out has worked pretty well. I recommend teams no bigger than 4; 2 or 3 is ideal. You want an even number of teams, though, because in Part II teams will negotiate against each other.

I think you'll find that in the report out most teams center around the same things; so, after the first team reports their major terms you can just solicit where other teams' discussion differed or got into different issues. I find it helpful to circulate amongst the teams and listen in and help guide the conversation a little as students can sometimes get lost in irrelevant or non-productive holes. If you want the environment a little more competitive you can skip the reporting out period for this first part so that the teams don't hear how the others marked up the term sheet.

Remember: everyone represents NewCo at this point. The term sheet is, at some points, fairly vague or open to interpretation about what it means. This is not a bug, it is a feature of information asymmetry and imperfect language that sometimes you have to guess about what something means before you can actually get on the phone with the other side. It can be useful to think about how the teams might use that imperfect language to their advantage.

There are two parts to this exercise: Part I takes 40 minutes or so and can be expanded to fill a longer class period, though I would be reluctant to let it go much longer than an hour and to take much more than 15-20 minutes for reporting out. 

Part II includes 3 different timings for the exercise depending on how much time you have in class to do this. I have found more time typically results in better negotiations. But, it may not be practical to have teams negotiating outside of class. 

In Part II, I take half the teams and declare them to be BigTech; the remaining teams remain as NewCo. Once they are paired up, the NewCo team will present *their* redline to BigTech and you're off to the races. If they aren't negotiating outside of class, I find it helpful, again, to circulate amongst the teams to help them stay on track and move the conversation forward. One fun part about these negotiations is that students almost never have experience with this kind of negotiation, so they have very funny ideas about how the terms can and should be negotiated. I encourage this and then talk about it later during a debrief session that might bring up points about professionalism and balance of power in negotiation.

In the longer class session and outside negotiation, I will have students upload their "final" redline to a document repository (Google Drive, for example). Then each set of teams can talk through how and why they arrived at their final draft. What concessions had to be made, what as their BATNA, etc. This report out can take anywhere from 30 minutes to a full class period depending on how detailed you want to get with the review and other discussions. I will often use this as an opportunity to discuss some of the finer points on valuation, intellectual property, venture capital norms, etc.
