There are a variety of ways you can handle this module. The material covered is pretty standard corporate finance 101 kind of stuff. Much like the legal side of this case study, you can get as complicated as you want with it. 

This exercise will really let you dive as much as you want into playing with the numbers and doing the kind of research that a startup would have to do to prepare this information. The limiting factor with the exercise is simply that you aren't given much hard data (lease rates, salaries, benefit packages, equipment costs, etc.) so students will need to get creative in developing that material (Module 5 is the financial statement exercise). This isn't that unusual from the research that the startup (NewCo) would have to do themselves. They might know what their immediate costs are, but they still need to go out and look at office space, ask a corporate real estate person about standard lease rates for what they are looking for, calculate that cost over their financing period, and the go out and raise that money.

I think the key thing that this module focuses on that might be unusual is the sources and uses of funds statement. I started using this document in the non-profit context. But increasingly my work with startups has focused on the "capital stack" which is really just "corporate-speak" for Source and Uses of Funds.

More importantly, the focus should be on the fact these don't need to be exact. At this stage, there is no quarterly annual report requirement that has to comply with SEC standards. So, students don't really need to learn that. But they should learn and be somewhat engaged with a balance sheet, but really understand the P&L and Cash Flow documents as they relate to investor metrics such as burn-rate, monthly recurring revenue, fixed costs, and cost of goods (or services) sold.

Even more importantly students should understand financials in the _entrepreneurial_ context (as will be required in Module 5) to tell a story about the company. What is important and how is that represented in the financials? Which pieces of financial data are particularly important? etc.

There are a lot of great resources available for this stuff. But the real hero is Prof. Aswath Damodaran at NYU's Stern School of Business. [He publishes all of his materials online](https://pages.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/New_Home_Page/home.htm) and it is a trove of information about the basics of corporate finance and has all of the right information for this case study.

Somewhat coincidentally, the NYU School of Law's Institute for Policy Integrity has [a powerpoint presentation looking at how to use financials to tell a story](https://policyintegrity.org/documents/1.2_Sanzillo_FinPerfIndicatorsFINAL_PDF_.pdf). There isn't much context around it, but I think the slides are pretty self-explanatory as to what is going on with the data to tell the story. I really like the slides on performance ratios. Plus, the deck also goes into really interesting detail about how to think about complex regulatory or industry environments. I would _not_ use this deck as a model for investor pitching, though :D