## Shark Tank

The end result of this exercise is built on an in-class exercise that we have done in the L&E Clinic for years and was one of the first in-class exercises I created as an educator. Students always have a lot of fun with it. In the original exercise, I assigned Shark Tank videos on YouTube for the students to watch, then students would adopt that product as their own and give a pitch. The other students acted as the "sharks" as they were each given $50,000 to "invest" in any of the other teams; they were required to invest all $50,000 to prevent students from just not investing. Like Shark Tank the "sharks" could ask questions at any time. At the end of the exercise we totalled up the amount that each shark invested and the team that came closest to their ask was named "the winner." Unfortunately, I had to end this competition when ABC/the owner of Shark Tank started methodically removing all of the "full pitch" videos from YouTube. Boo!

This current exercise adopts the pitch and investor piece of the Shark Tank exercise, but increases the difficult substantially to be much more realistic for a startup just getting started. To properly prepare this pitch deck the startup needs to have a solid understanding of not just current financials (generally pretty straightforward), but projected financial (far less straightforward). They need to be able to justify to investors that the money invested will be well-spent (capital stack/sources and uses). They need to have solid understanding of their customer and of the current competitive environment. All of this data is hard to develop and present coherently.

There are a few solutions to the difficulty of this exercise:
**Least Difficulty**: simply adopt a more "shark tank" style approach. I'd recommend finding accelerator pitches on YouTube or wherever and assigning those to student teams.

**Modest Difficulty**: provide all teams with a competitive analysis and some basic projected financials to work from. There is no reason why all teams can't start wtih the same data, so you would only need to create this once (or you could even have AI generate it for you; perhaps a future iteration of this case study I will do exactly that).

**Most Difficulty**: The exercise as proposed. This should be a relatively straightforward financial/competitive analysis for anyone in the second year of an MBA program. Upper level undergrads could probably get through it if they have a background in finance and/or strategy and/or entrepreneurship. Any other audience will probably need some to significant help or classroom education before taking it on at this difficulty.